This assignment is designed to give you a first experience in Assembler programming.
You will be using Visual Studio 2015/2017 (your choice) and Microsoft Assembler (MASM).
You can complete this assignment using the CS computer labs or the CS Athena remote terminal server (Links to an external site.).
If you plan on completing this on your own computer, you will first need to download the Irvine library at (VS 2015: http://kipirvine.com/asm/gettingStartedVS2015/Irvine.zip (Links to an external site.)). For VS 2017, use this library: http://kipirvine.com/asm/gettingStartedVS2017/Irvine.zip (Links to an external site.)
You will need to unzip into a folder at C:\Irvine. You must put it in that location. IT WILL NOT WORK OTHERWISE.
In order for the project template to work correctly, the Irvine folder must be at C:\Irvine.
If you're using Athena, the Irvine library has already been installed. 

At the end of this assignment, upload both your assembler source: CS810-Assembler-Template.ASM and the executable file CS810-Assembler-Template.EXE (or Project.exe in the VS 2017 template). 
(note that the .asm file is in your project folder and the .exe in the debug folder within the project)

1. Download the assignment project template zip file from 2015 project template: https://weberstate.box.com/v/2810-asm-vs2015 (Links to an external site.)
2017 project template: https://weberstate.box.com/v/2810-VS2017-template (Links to an external site.)
2. Unzip the project folder to a location on your hard drive.
3. Start Visual Studio and open the downloaded VS solution contained in the project folder.
4. When the project has started, open the assembler source code file, CS2810-A1.ASM
5. Modify the program source code to do the following:
a) Clear the display.
b) Display the string "CS2810 Spring Semester 2018" on row 2, column 12 of the display.
c) Display the string "Assembler Assignment #1" on row 3, column 12 of the display.
d) Display your name on row 4, column 12 of the display.
e) Thoroughly test your project before submitting. 

Submit your two completed and tested files
(CS2810-A1.ASM & CS2810-A1.EXE).
 

 

----------------- Program essential help ------------------

 

The Irvine library contains a number of Procs and Macros that simplify I/O in MASM.

On this assignment you will use three of the Procs in the library:
- Clrscr - clears the command window. 
- Gotoxy - positions the cursor at the row and column specified in register sections DH and DL 
- WriteString - displays the string at the address specified in the EDX register. The string must be 0 terminated.

The sample program shows how to call the Procs.
Note that with any Procs that require values to be in registers, the registers MUST be set PRIOR to calling the Proc.

The command window is typically 80 columns (characters) wide and 25 rows (lines) deep.